Alright.
So, let's look at some out of ordinary items in ExceptionHandling.
The try with resources statement will suppress exceptions up to two,
which may occur during the close methods on any resources if an exception is thrown
from the try block.
Let's explore this feature in code.
What we need to do is, create yet another class in our ExceptionHandling project.
We're going to call this one, Season,
paste in the code.
Right, so this code consists of a public Season class
representing a season of episodes in a series of shows,
so specifically, you can see the Season class implements AutoCloseable
on line 10. It also declares a concrete close method
and run method.
Now, we'll ignore this in a class. We'll come back to that shortly,
but you can see the actual Overridden close method here
on line 47,
and also the run method there on 55.
But getting back to the inner class here,
you see the inner class is called Episode then that represents episodes within a season.
And you can see that it implements AutoCloseable
and also declares some concrete methods.
So, specifically, we've got the concrete close method there for the inner class.
And note that this throws an exception a RuntimeException
if the episode number is equal to one,
same with the run method there,
episodeNumber one also throws a RuntimeException.
Getting back to the Overridden methods for the Season class instead of the episode,
you can see in that closed method is throwing a RuntimeException
if the season number is equal to one.
We've also got that run method that I said that just does some output.
And looking at our main method that declares a try with resources statement
using an instantiation of season representing season one
and an instantiation of episode. And that's representing episode one
and both run methods are invoked in the try block.
So, both the Season run method and the Episode run method.
So, let's run this code now.
You can see the output,
so basically, you can see that the try statement reached the closed statements.
First, in the episode instance then in the season,
and both of these threw an exception.
These exceptions get collected and stored on the suppressed exception array
on the original exception, which occurred while running episode 1.
Now, since I didn't catch or handle the exceptions,
execution terminated and the stack trace which includes suppressed exceptions
was output. And we can see that obviously on the screen.
So, let's actually try catching these errors this time.
We're going to make it very simple down here on line 68.
I'm going to add catch
(exception e)  in parentheses add a code block.
And we're just going to print out System.out.println (e).
Very simple!
Right, so let's now run it again and see what happens. Now we're catching the error.
Alright, so you can see we've got different output this time.
When I printed the exceptions thrown during the try clause
using system.out.println on line 69,
I only get the basics about the exception.
And really, at this point, I've got no idea that exceptions
may have occurred during the closed method or methods
except that our closed methods did not print the last statement in their methods as expected.
Now what we can do is query the exception that was thrown for the try clause
for any suppressed exceptions. So, let's actually try doing that.
So, we're going to go back to our code here
in our catch clause,
and we'll put some code for  (Throwable
t: e.getSuppressed),
then we've got the parentheses there, then the closing right parentheses,
open a code block.
Let's print each one out, so system.out.println(t)
Run this now,
we can see the output now.
It’s now showing the various RuntimeExceptions
and the error message associated with it that we added, Episode failed,Closing failed
on Episode, and Closing failed on Season.
Alright, so what happens if we don't have an exception
on the Episode run method? Let's go back up to that.
There's the Episode run method, so what I'm going to do is just comment out
these two lines here,
so that we're not throwing the exception.
Getting back to our main method,
I'm just going to make a change here, just so it's more obvious from the output what's happening.
So, what we're going to do is here, System.out.println,
we'll have a more like extended message here,
double quotes ERROR CAUGHT
plus e, and we'll do a similar thing for the suppressed,
double quotes SUPPRESSED
plus t.
So, now if we run this,
we can now see more clearly that the ERROR CAUGHT was java.lang.RuntimeException:
Closing Failed on Episode but the Suppressed exception
was from our Season code and the close method, specifically.
Alright.
So, let's now, try adding our own suppressed exceptions.
I'm going to undo the changes that I made to the Episode run method.
So, we're going to put the exception back and get the code back.
And now, what I'm going to do is edit the Season run method.
So, I'll come down here to the Season run method, which currently is only doing an output
a line of output as you can see on line 56.
So, specifically, I'm going to add some code here,
if parentheses this.seasonNumber is equal to one.
What we're going to do in that case is throw a new RuntimeException,
and the message we're going to put is Season failed.
Right, so what I'm going to do here is just replace the method,the main method,
add a few changes to it, and then we'll go through, and
talk about what's been changed.
Alright.
So, I've pasted in some new changes there.
So, what I've done is firstly, on line 63,
you can see I've added the local variable of top throwable
named addedSuppressed and set it initially to null.
And also, looking at the code now, added a nested try/catch
to catch any error from the Season run.
And the exceptions caught and assigned to the local variable.
You can see, they're all happening. The try/catch is now on line 70 through 75.
And we're setting the caught exception to a local variable on line 75.
Down here, in the outer catch,
I'm demonstrating how to add a suppressed exception,
then demonstrating printing all the exceptions out.
Alright, so let's run this.
And we can see the app on screen.
So, what that's demonstrating is that we successfully added
an exception to the Suppressed exception list
that's obviously, the one on the one, right at the bottom of the output there,Season failed,
which relates to the code, the change that we made there on
lines 57 and 58 of the Season run method.
Alright. So, I want to perform one more test before we finish the video
on the trial with resources construct.
We need a new class for that,
let's go ahead and create a new one.
We'll call this one SeasonTest.
Right, so this code, I've pasted in, is a bit ugly but interesting.
So, firstly, what I'm doing is I'm declaring a basic try with resources statement using Season.
And you can see that on line 13.
Now with that, I'm initializing the variable s
which is local to the try block,
and initializing it specifically with season one.
Any exception from this try clause is thrown
from the main method,not caught and stops execution.
Looking at the code further slightly down on line 17, I'm declaring a Nested try-with-resources
statement this time in a for loop.
You can see the for loop starting on line 14.
Now passing in two resources,
the Season s already instantiated previously,
but also the declaration and instances of new episodes.
So, inside this try block, I'm executing the run method as you can see there,
line 19, which fails on episode one.
This exception is caught and printed
with the suppressed exceptions from the attempts to close the resources.
And note also that the Nested try-with-resources statement will try to close
the current episode as well as the Season s.
The outer try with resources statement will attempt to close Season s as well.
Let's run this.
And there's the output on the screen there.
So, I want to point out that up until java 8. The try-with-resources statement could only
close resources declared as part of the statement.
But as of java 9,
this statement can also close predefined resources
as this example demonstrates with Season s in the Nested try-with-resources statement.
Finally, I just want to point out that all the examples I've shown you in this video
and the previous ones in this section of the course
which overrode the close method of AutoCloseable,
not one of them declared the throws clause for the method.
So, note that the close method on AutoCloseable is declared
with a throws Exception clause.
Now, this is considered, I will just close the output pane here,
doing that's considered a valid override as demonstrated in all these examples
as well as declaring a more specific Exception.
Let's go back to the Season class.
What I want to do is alter the close method on Season,
and you can see there's our close method, line 47.
We're going to add a throws clause as I've been talking about.
The throws, we'll throw a RuntimeException.
See that the code still compiles if we run it,
we'll get the same output as well.
Everything's working as it was before.
Remember that when overriding a method,
you can exclude the throws clause if the interface specifies one,
or you can include the throws clause with the same type of exception,
or a more specific subclass of the declared exception.
Now, for example, the following code I'm about to type in here
is actually going to introduce a compiler error.
I'll change RuntimeException to throwable,
we've got a compiler error now, because throwable is not a subclass of exception.
We'll undo that change.
All right, so in this long video, I've covered many additional
less-used features of the try-with-resources statement,
including accessing Suppressed exceptions, adding Suppressed exceptions,
and using a resource in the try block instantiated previously.
So, you should now be well-covered, overall with Exceptions,
Testing invariants, Assertions, etc.
for any questions that may come up in the exam.
So, coming up next, we've got some quiz questions
to test your knowledge of what you've learned in this section of the course.
Then moving on to the section three, and there we'll be discussing interfaces.
So, I'll see you in the upcoming quiz and then moving on to the interfaces section.